# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In the console.rb file
e.g. property1 = Property.new

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

In the property.rb file where the function is defined
i.e. def save()

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

Lines 4/33 delete properties from the table in the database.

Lines 13/22/31 save properties into the table in the database.


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Because we want the IDs of the objects to match the ID that the database generates so Ruby/Database match.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

The id is assigned in property.rb during the db.exec_prepared method.
The id is returned due to the RETURNING id part of the sql string, and this is then extracted during exec_prepared and assigned to @id.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Because we don't necessarily define the id when we instantiate a Property, it comes later when the object is saved into the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Class methods are performed on the whole class and all objects from that class. E.g. find_by_address searches all instances of the Property class.
Instance methods are when you just want to interact with 1 instances of a class e.g. update method will update a single instance of Property.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It returns an array and the ID is accessed by taking the value of the item in the first position in the array [0], converting it to an integer .to_i and then assigning it to @id

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To help avoid issues from sql injections or inserting stray characters like ' as it would be possible to append further commands to the sql command (such as delete) and impact the data. So prepared statements add an extra step into the sql query to prevent this from being possible.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

id and address respectively

Q11. What are their return values?

nil if no matches are found

A hash of the property that has been found that matches the address or id.
